Before we discuss the technical implementation of renormalisation, let us revisit two generic question concerning its philosophy:
- It is permissible to redefine the coupling constants?
- If so, is it permissible to redefine them by an infinite amount?

Towards answering the first question, it is important to realise that **neither the bare parameters of the Lagrangian nor the renormalised parameters are physical.** Neither of their values can actually be measured directly. Effectively, it is only relevant that the model makes accurate predictions of the physics. The predictions certainly depend on the values of the (bare or renormalised) parameters, and therefore the latter need to be tuned to make the predictions as precise as possible. As there is no deeper meaning to the values of the parameters, they can be redefined.

# Analogy. 
A practical analogy in this context is the tuning of a radio to receive a specific station (which in fact is similar to a physics experiment in many regards): arguably, the optimal strategy in terms of the result is to tune the radio such that the received signal displays the highest signal to noise ratio. After tuning, the setting of the dial will be close to the design frequency of the station. However, small deviations are to be expected due to the imprecise translation between the writing on the dial and the receiver frequency which can be influenced by a multitude of factors (e.g., writing misplaced, elements malfunction electronics not gauged, voltage not at design value).

Towards answering the second question, it is important to realise that the regularised model is merely an approximation to physics. As discussed above, the values of the regularised model's bare parameters have no significance, except that they should be tuned such that the model's predictions are in optimal agreement with physics. In this case all parameters are properly finite, and the above considerations apply. **When we remove the regulator, the values of the parameters may change as we keep tuning them to maintain (and improve) agreement with physics. Whether or not the bare parameters will be infinite in the unregularised limit is of no concern as their values are not immediately measurable.** The renormalised parameters merely serve as finite substitutes to allow tuning to physics in a situation where the bare parameters are infinite. However, just as their bare counterparts, their values are not significant.

# Example


An example of renormalisation is the energy of the electromagnetic field of a point charge in classical electrodynamics. Due to the divergent field near the point source, the energy of the associated electromagnetic field configuration receives an infinite contribution from the neighbourhood of the point source. T**o improve this result we regularise the point charge by giving it a finite radius.** Then the field energy is perfectly finite but diverges as the radius approaches zero. Next, **we renormalise the vacuum energy to exactly counterbalance the (large but finite) contribution from the charge.** We can do this, because there is no physical significance to the vacuum energy. Finally, we can send the radius to zero making sure to tune the vacuum energy such that the overall energy remains finite in the limit. To make better sense of this method we conclude with two remarks: **A point charge is an idealisation, in reality all charges will inevitably have some finite radius and all results will be finite. Even if this argument would not apply to the elementary particles such as the electrons and quarks, there is still the fact that the vacuum energy is not measurable and it should not worry us to find divergences in unphysical constants or results**. In this case, only the difference of energies, where the vacuum energy cancels out, can be relevant.